QUICK START

17 May 93

Copy all the files on all the disks to a folder on your hard disk
(make sure you have at two (4) megabytes of free space on
your hard disk for each disk of Moby product).
Change your current directory ('CD') to that folder,
type BUILD and press (enter).
The files that are extracted may be viewed and edited by
any capable text-editor, such as Microsoft Word 5.x.

Moby (tm) Words II Documentation Notes

This documentation, the software and/or database are:

Copyright (c) 1988-93, Grady Ward. All Rights Reserved.
3449 Martha Ct. 
Arcata, CA  95521-4884  USA
(707) 826-7715 (voice/24-hr 7 day FAX)
grady@netcom.com

License Agreement
This documentation, software and/or database was developed
and copyrighted by Grady Ward and is licensed, not sold, to
you on a non-exclusive, non-transferable basis. The documentation,
software and/or database and derivative works of this database
may not be copied in whole or part except for archival purposes
as provided by law. If you have purchased the commercial license,
Grady Ward explicitly grants you the limited right to create and
market data structures or knowledge bases derived this work
without further payment of a license fee, as long as the purpose
and effect of that data structure or knowledge base is other than
re-distributing that Grady Ward data structure or database. (In
other words, you can freely distribute data structures based upon
any or all of this work as long as you take reasonable care to
prevent unlicensed persons and organizations from accessing
the ASCII source.)

Willful copyright violations are both a civil and a criminal offense [17USC500]

Disclaimer of Warranty

This documentation, software and/or database is sold "as is"
and without express or implied warranties as to performance
or merchantability for a particular purpose.The user is advised
to test the documentation, software and/or database thoroughly
before relying on it. The user assumes the entire risk of using
this documentation, software and/or database and any liability
of seller or manufacturer will be limited to product replacement
or refund of the license fee.

Moby (tm) Words II for the MSDOS operating system is compressed
and distributed on two 1.4MB double-sided diskettes. After
self-extraction, the vocabulary files included with this product
are in ordinary ASCII format with CRLF (ASCII 13/10) delimiters.

MOBY WORDS II CONTENTS

354,984 single words
Over 354,000 single words, excluding proper names, acronyms,
or compound words and phrases. This list does not exclude archaic
words or significant variant spellings.

256,772 compound words
Over 256,700 hyphenated or other entries containing more
than one word as well as all capitalized words and acronyms.
Phrases were considered 'common' if they or variations of them
occur in standard dictionaries or thesauruses.

113,809 official crosswords
A list of words permitted in crossword games such as Scrabble(tm).
Compatible with the first edition of the Official Scrabble Players
Dictionary(tm). Since this list has all forms: -ing, -ed, -s, and so on
of words, it makes a good addition when building a custom spelling dictionary.

4,160 official crosswords delta
When combined with the 113,809 crosswords file, it produces the
official crossword list compatible with the second edition of the
Official Scrabble Players Dictionary.  (Scrabble is a registered
trademark of Milton-Bradley licensed to Merriam-Webster.)

74,550 common dictionary words
A list of words in common with two or more published dictionaries.
This gives the developer of a custom spelling checker a good beginning
pool of relatively common words.

21,986 names
This database contains the most common names used in the
United States and Great Britain. Spelling checkers may want to
supplement their basic word list with this one.

4,946 female names
frequent given names of females in English speaking countries

3,897 male names
frequent given names of males in English speaking countries

10,196 places
a large selection of place names in the United States

1,000 by frequency
This file consists of the 1,000 most frequently used
English words from a wide variety of common texts listed
in decreasing order of frequency

1,000 by frequency internet
This file consists of the 1,000 most frequently used
English words as used on the Internet computer network in 1992.

6,213 acronyms
common acronyms & abbreviations

1,185 King James Version frequent substrings
The most frequently occurring 1,185 substrings in the King James
Version Bible ranked and counted by order of frequency.

467 current fiction substrings
The most frequently occurring 467 substrings occurring in a
best-selling novel by Amy Tan in 1990.

USA Constitution
The Constitution of the United States, including the Bill of Rights
and all amendments current to 1993.

NOTE: Accents have been stripped from words, e.g., 'etude'
does not mark the accent on the initial 'e'.

