QUICK START



18 May 93



Copy all the files on all the disks to a folder on your hard disk (make sure you
have at least four (4) megabytes of free disk space per disk of product).
Set your directory ('CD') to the new folder, type BUILD and press (enter).
The files that were extracted may be viewed and manipulated by any capable 
text editor or word processor, such as Microsoft Word 5.x.

Moby (tm) Part-of-Speech II Documentation Notes


This documentation, the software and/or database are:


Copyright (c) 1988-93, Grady Ward.  All Rights Reserved.

3449 Martha Ct.

Arcata, CA  95521-4884  USA

(707) 826-7715
 (voice/fax)
grady@netcom.com


 
License Agreement

This documentation, software and/or database was developed and
copyrighted by Grady Ward and is licensed, not sold, to you on a
non-exclusive, non-transferable basis. The documentation, software
and/or database and derivative works of this database may not be
copied in whole or part except for archival purposes as provided by law.
If you have purchased the commercial license, Grady Ward explicitly
grants you the limited right to create and market data structures or
knowledge bases derived this work without further payment of a
license fee, as long as the purpose and effect of that data structure
or knowledge base is other than redistributing that Grady Ward
data structure or database. (In other words, you must make a
reasonable effort to prevent unlicensed individuals and companies
from accessing the source form of this data.)



Willful copyright violations are both a civil and a criminal offense [17USC500]

Disclaimer of Warranty


This documentation, software and/or database is sold "as is" and
without express or implied warranties as to performance or merchantability
for a particular purpose. The user is advised to test the documentation,
software and/or database thoroughly before relying on it.
The user assumes the entire risk of using this documentation,
software and/or database and any liability of seller or manufacturer
will be limited to product replacement or refund of the license fee.

Moby (tm) Part-of-Speech II for MSDOS operating systems is compressed
and distributed on one HD double sided diskette.  After decompression
the vocabulary file included with this product is in ordinary ASCII
format with CRLF (ASCII 13/10) delimiters.

This second edition is a particularly thorough revision of the original
Moby Part-of-Speech. Beyond the fifteen thousand new entries,
many thousand more entries have been scrutinized for correctness
and modernity. This is unquestionably the largest P-O-S list in the
world.  Note that the many included phrases means that parsing
algorithms can now tokenize in units larger than a single word,
increasing both speed *and* accuracy.


Database Legend:


Each part-of-speech vocabulary entry consists of a word or phrase 
field followed by a field delimiter of  (ASCII 215) and the
part-of-speech field that is coded using the following ASCII symbols 
(case is significant):



Noun                        	N

Plural                      	p

Noun Phrase		h

Verb (usu participle)    V

Verb (transitive)     	t

Verb (intransitive)  	i

Adjective                     A

Adverb                    	v

Conjunction             	C

Preposition             	P

Interjection            	!

Pronoun                    	r

Definite Article       	D

Indefinite Article     	I

Nominative               	o



This two-part vocabulary record is delimited from others with CRLF
(ASCII 13/10). For example, engineer Nt  means that the word engineer
has two main uses in English; the principal part-of-speech is as a noun 
"That engineer could write in microcode with one hand and in ADA
with the other" and its secondary part-of-speech is as a transitive verb:
"We sure engineered that software to death." 

In many cases, the -ed, -ing,
-ly, and -ic forms of words are not explicitly listed; the participle forms
of verbs will be usually marked simply with the V sign rather than the
more specific t or i symbols.  Words such as "be," which often have
more than one head entry in a dictionary, have one listing with all the
parts-of-speech for all senses concatenated.  Foreign words commonly
used in English usually include their diacritical marks, for example, the
acute accent e is denoted by ASCII 142.

